# FedID WG Telecon, 2024-10-22

* Moderators: Heather Flanagan, Wendy Seltzer

* Scribe: Phil

Call-in details: see [https://www.w3.org/groups/wg/fedid/calendar/](https://www.w3.org/groups/wg/fedid/calendar/) 

Charter: [https://www.w3.org/2024/03/wg-fedid-charter.html](https://www.w3.org/2024/03/wg-fedid-charter.html) 

# Agenda

* Administrivia  
  * Scribe volunteer(s)?  
  * Reminders:   
    * [Working Group Membership](https://www.w3.org/groups/wg/fedid/)  
    * [W3C Code of Conduct](https://www.w3.org/policies/code-of-conduct/)  
  * [Recharter status](https://www.w3.org/2024/07/wg-fedid-charter.html)  
* FedCM  
  * [Specify the mode API](https://github.com/w3c-fedid/FedCM/pull/660)  
  * [Status of FPWD-identified issues](https://github.com/w3c-fedid/FedCM/wiki/Status-of-FPWD%E2%80%90identified-Issues)  
* AOB  
  * early horizontal review updates  
  * the auth mechanism with FedCM

# 

# Notes

* Heather:  
  * Usual reminders about WG call.  
    * Abide by W3C Working Group Conduct  
  * Focus on issues that need WG consensus  
  * Recharter status. The W3C Team has put together what is going on with the formal objection: team report to Council. They expect this to be moved along fairly quickly, but there's not a lot for us to do right now. Update by the end of the month.  
    \[See [https://www.w3.org/about/council/](https://www.w3.org/about/council/) for Council status in general\]  
  * On last week's call, we talked about a PR on the Mode API: [https://github.com/w3c-fedid/FedCM/pull/660](https://github.com/w3c-fedid/FedCM/pull/660). Did not dive into it to our satisfaction, so we want to bring that back up, and get Ben’s take on the PR. Anything specific the Google team wants to add to that?  
* Yi:  
  * Does Zak have anything to say?  
* Zachary:  
  * Going through the PR.  
  * We have a spec PR for active mode, the Google team have taken a look, we discussed last week. Can Ben or Aaron take a look, and are they happy to merge it?  
* Ben:  
  * The idea of active mode is good. Would prefer there was only active mode, and did not have passive mode. While this is good, it doesn’t resolve the consensus-blocking issue.  
* Zachary:  
  * Active mode solves the problem that ‘a user has not yet logged’ in to the IDP. Should we delineate the two ‘active’ and ‘passive’, or should we not have a mode at all (merge them)? Not sure how that would work in practice.  
* Yi:  
  * Clarification to Ben. People love active mode; on the other hand, the passive mode has its own advantages. It has value on its own, though it is more controversial than active mode. How would you handle the cases that passive mode solves without it?  
  * Ben: User would click a UI element in the page. What is the use case where you need to interrupt the user?  
  * Yi: The Demo of .. or social login  
* Ben:  
  * Passive mode does not handle the social login use case without annoyance.  
* Yi:  
  * We can use other stuff, like machine learning, to improve the ‘passive’ mode.  
* Gioele:  
  * There are parallels in WebAuthn; there are active (user gesture) and passive modes there, too.  
  * Curious why we feel passive mode for passkeys is useful, but less useful in FedCM?   
    * Maybe too, Ben, do you have a similar take for the passkey flow?  
    * Is there any consensus in the WebAuthn WG about the appeal of a passkey prompt without a user gesture?   
* Aaron:  
  * There is a clear difference in the passkey example, because passkeys are a first-party authenticator, whereas FedCM is not; it is third-party social login.  
* Ben:  
  * Not sure about passkeys (not involved). Aaron has it correct; FedCM is third-party, whereas passkey is first-party. And there are different privacy issues with third-party than first-party. Some third-party might get more information about users across sites (in the FedCM case).  
* Heather:  
  * Sam?  
* Sam:  
  * Few thoughts. I hear where you're coming from, Ben; a big part of me agrees with you, but another part believes this (intrusion) problem, and we have some other tricks we think we can play. The browser can have a sense on page load that the user wants to sign in. We have some tricks we can play to make it less intrusive.  
  * Back to Gioele’s point about WebAuthn. Can we write the spec in such a way Chrome can take one position, and Firefox another, but still interoperate?  
  * What is in the spec is what is being questioned. The spec PR makes the spec better, and closer to what Ben suggests.   
  * I do not think we will find a resolution now, but can we write this down as a valid problem we can come back to and find a resolution later.  
* Heather:  
  * Hearing so far, not a block on the PR, (so we should merge it), but another block still exists and should be resolved later  
* Sam:  
  * The purpose of this PR is to solve the ‘user not logged in’ problem. Ben is identifying an issue that was not a blocker initially, and this PR does solve the original blocker (user not logged in), but there is a new blocker (or issue to be discussed).  
* Wendy:  
  * We do not need to debate whether this was an issue noted in the first public working draft blocking issues. But we do need to make sure Ben’s issues are raised through the WG.   
  * Agree with the way forward Heather describes.  
  * This PR is still on track to merge.  
  * And then we still have a PR with the concerns Ben is raising to resolve later.  
* Npm:  
  * Good feedback; perhaps not new, but we should file an issue for it if not already.  
  * It should be valid for the dev to let the user authenticate to the site  
  * Would it be acceptable to add to the spec, some kind of arbitrary delay to the user-agent, e.g. if Firefox wants to wait for a user interaction, even in passive mode, they can, without rejecting the call to passive mode.  So FireFox allows passive mode, but only after the user has interacted with the page — as a compromise to Firefox. Or similar ideas that allow interoperable use of passive mode, but with slightly different implementations?  
* Aaron:  
  * I know spec cannot dictate UI elements. I know there are concerns over how obtrusive the UI popup is. Mock-ups show this moving to the browser (menu bar? PS).   
* Sam:  
  * From Chrome’s position, we believe this would be possible (for passive mode), but this is an implementation choice. Chrome might choose to use something more suitable. The spec should not determine a specific UI formulation. Some things we could do —  
    * User scrolls down  
    * Machine learning models  
    * Omnibox API  
    * Chrome implements some cooldown, so it does not always show the UI  
  * The judgement the browser can make?  
* Zachary:  
  * Other Chrome teams have tried various things.  
  * Could Ben take a look at the spec PR? Some of the language could be made less strong. If it does not work for you, we should work out something that should be more interoperable.  
* Ben:  
  * I will take a look, but the PR is fine for solving the problem at hand (cannot log in).  
  * Some combination of quieter UI and emphasising context that the user has already logged in.  
  * There might be something that comes out that is better.  
  * Machine learning worries me, about issues of fairness. Black box that treats different IdPs differently. Type of impact that might have on different providers, e.g., IndieAuth, etc. (Priority, etc.)  
    * So Mozilla might not want to do that  
* Zachary:  
  * We can control the inputs to the model.  
* Yi:  
  * (PS, did not catch sorry)  
* Ben:  
  * IdP would expect fair representation.  
* Heather:  
  * Anything else for this PR?  
* Yi:  
  * Ben to take a look, and update based on the discussion today.  
* Sam:  
  * Just so I understand the outcome.  
  * Ben gets this PR merged, then work on the intrusion problem separately, or together?  
* Heather:  
  * They will be treated separately.  
* Sam:  
  * In the spec PR, add the issue that Ben raised for the public working draft (maybe [https://github.com/w3c-fedid/active-mode/issues/6](https://github.com/w3c-fedid/active-mode/issues/6) ?)  
* Heather:  
  * That makes sense  
    * We have a plan for this PR  
  * List of identified issues: [https://github.com/w3c-fedid/FedCM/wiki/Status-of-FPWD%E2%80%90identified-Issues](https://github.com/w3c-fedid/FedCM/wiki/Status-of-FPWD%E2%80%90identified-Issues)  
    * Question for the Google team, what should we be working on next?  
* Sam:  
  * Everything we are currently working on is in stage 1 or 2\. Everything in 1, we want to move to stage 2, e.g., IdP registration API; also Lightweight FedCM moving to stage 2\. Actively working with Ben.  
  * A few things that do not show up there are first public working draft blockers. I do not think they need to block the first working draft  
    * Edge wants to get access to the accounts from the Operating System (Windows and Android)  
    * Looking into SD-JWT with Key Binding (SD-JWT-KB).   
  * Concretely, everything in stage 1, we want to move to 2, and 2 to 3\.  
* Ben:  
  * Suggestion to the chairs: what about a weekly digest?  
* Heather:  
  * Wendy did that.   
* Wendy:  
  * We set up the W3C tooling to send those out.  
  * [https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-fedid-wg/2024Oct/0009.html](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-fedid-wg/2024Oct/0009.html)   
  * Any suggestions for improvement, let us know. Thanks Ben for raising that.  
* Heather  
  * AOB. Ben you had one?  
* Ben:  
  * Thinking what that was…  
* Heather:  
  * I’ll do mine first.   
  * Horizontal reviews.  
    * Good conversation with Nicholas about the internationalisation review. Almost ready for early feedback.   
    * We have other horizontal reviews we need champions for — Security, Privacy, Accessibility, TAG  
      * Phil is going to help with the security one (although he has no experience :-) )  
      * Nicholas can help with the privacy one.  
    * Draft for I18N can be seen at: [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1xmaPGw6GV--BtQGGowh\_GlhymPx3Hwi4LWl8Z2jto4Y/edit?usp=sharing](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1xmaPGw6GV--BtQGGowh_GlhymPx3Hwi4LWl8Z2jto4Y/edit?usp=sharing).  
* Gioele:  
  * Chatting with Sam and Aaron about the auth mechanism with FedCM.  
  * Had some implementation driven questions in GitHub. But there might be room for a wider conversation. I think I have identified; FedCM is nondescriptive about the authn/authz protocol used, but FedCM is unique in how the authn flows work. I will open a GitHub issue to discuss this issue. Should we add some best practices to the spec, and security review?  
* Aaron:  
  * Was discussing PKCE addition in Gioele.  
  * Goal of FedCM is to establish the session on a server, given input from the browser; you need to prevent ‘injection’ attacks (for the code). PKCE can help, but to do that you need to maintain server state, which is not described in detail in OAuth, and FedCM is quite far from the protocol spec, so you might end up implementing something via FedCM (FedCM does not mention it at all) which allows an injection attack to succeed. So maybe this should be put into the FedCM security section.  
* Sam:  
  * Is this a security hole in production right now?  
* Aaron:  
  * Went through Google docs. If the front-end gets an ID token from nowhere, you open yourself up to injection attacks. If you can steal a token from a valid user, you can log in as that user. You can solve this by tying your token to a given backend session.  
* Sam:  
  * So you can do it safely.  
* Aaron:  
  * If you know what you are doing.  
* Ben:  
  * We have been leaving this big foot-gun lying around. From a Security perspective, beyond adding a security considerations section,Is there anything we can do from FedCM perspective (API shape)?  
* Gioele:  
  * I have some ideas, can open this up in a ticket.  
  * Aaron opened the first issue.  
  * We need to consider this more generally.  
* Sam:  
  * We could use your guidance on: The intent was to make FedCM not a developer-facing thing. The intent was to add an OpenID or OAuth profile, so people would only learn about FedCM by first choosing their favoured authentication/authorization protocol.   
* Aaron:  
  * I like that goal.  
* Ben:  
  * Bigger warning about this on FedCM literature.  
* Sam:  
  * Does lightweight and SAA make this harder?  
* Ben:  
  * SAA might make this easier, as not relying on the token in the same way.  
* Sam:  
  * But you are even more on your own. It is less opinionated.   
* Ben:  
  * You are less likely to manufacture these issues.  
* Sam:  
  * It is not just about PKCE.  
  * Question is, do people know how to implement OAuth safely?  
* Ben:  
  * FedCM, if you squint, looks like it is providing more than it does.  
  * People think you are doing something, i.e., assume the browser is doing something with the ‘nonce’ param, but it does not (IdP and RP need to).  
* Sam:  
  * Does that satisfy your issue?  
* Gioele:  
  * I will file an issue for us to continue the conversation on.  
* Heather:  
  * Cancelled next week due to IIW.  
  * Tuesday 5th next call. Although during IETF. Will see if someone can run that call.  
  * Ben, you might need some time for lightweight FedCM.  
* Ben:  
  * Trying to keep to CG calls, but... let's do the 5th  
    

# Attendees 

* Heather Flanagan (Spherical Cow Consulting)  
* [Ted Thibodeau](https://github.com/TallTed/) (he/him) ([OpenLink Software](https://www.openlinksw.com/))  
* Phil Smart (Shibboleth/Jisc)  
* Wendy Seltzer (Invited Expert)  
* Aaron Parecki (Okta)  
* Benjamin VanderSloot (Mozilla)  
* Joel Antoci (Shopify)  
* Nicolás Peña Moreno (Google Chrome)  
* Tim Cappali (Okta)  
* Sam Goto (Google Chrome)  
* Michael Knowles (Google Chrome)  
* Bjorn Hjelm (Yubico)  
* Zachary Tan (Google Chrome)  
* Nithyananthan Poosamani (Samsung)