# FedID WG Telecon, 2024-11-19

* Moderators: Heather Flanagan, Wendy Seltzer

* Scribe: Phil

# Agenda

* Administrivia  
  * Scribe volunteer(s)?  
  * Reminders:   
    * [Working Group Membership](https://www.w3.org/groups/wg/fedid/)  
    * [W3C Code of Conduct](https://www.w3.org/policies/code-of-conduct/)  
  * [Recharter status](https://www.w3.org/2024/07/wg-fedid-charter.html)  
* FedCM  
  * *Note: [Specify the mode API](https://github.com/w3c-fedid/FedCM/pull/660) and [Specify the continuation API](https://github.com/w3c-fedid/FedCM/pull/662) reviewed and approved to merge*  
  * [Fields API \- PR 668](https://github.com/w3c-fedid/FedCM/pull/668)  
  * [Concern: Contextual Integrity violation](https://github.com/fedidcg/LightweightFedCM/issues/50)  
* AOB  
  * other open PRs
     * [https://github.com/w3c-fedid/FedCM/pulls?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Apr+label%3Aagenda%2B](https://github.com/w3c-fedid/FedCM/pulls?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Apr+label%3Aagenda%2B) 
     * [https://github.com/w3c-fedid/FedCM/wiki/Status-of-FPWD%E2%80%90identified-Issues](https://github.com/w3c-fedid/FedCM/wiki/Status-of-FPWD%E2%80%90identified-Issues) 


# Notes

* Heather: WG call reminders. Agree to W3C Code of conduct  
  * Recharter status, the council has formed. They are reviewing materials now, currently a wait and see.  
    * Three options:  
      * Reject the charter entirely   
      * The FO has some good points, and the charter will go through with appropriate modifications  
      * Reject the FO 100% (overrule the FO), and the charter will go through  
  * Mode API, Continuation API have been reviewed and merged  
  * Today, discuss the Fields API: [https://github.com/w3c-fedid/FedCM/pull/668](https://github.com/w3c-fedid/FedCM/pull/668), and the Contextual Integrity violation issue: [https://github.com/fedidcg/LightweightFedCM/issues/50](https://github.com/fedidcg/LightweightFedCM/issues/50)  
  * Let's start with the Fields API

### Fields API \- PR 668

* Christian:  
  * That is mine.   
  * Allows the RP to specify what they would like to request, so the disclosure text in the FedCM UI can be updated. The IdP also gains knowledge of this, so they know what to show the user.  
* Ben:  
  * I don’t know… Should FedCM use the fields API at all, or should it just use the continuation API? Pulling more stuff into the browser UI is not the right direction.  
* Christian:  
  * From a user's perspective, it is preferable to have one fewer dialogs in this case (no need for continuation API)  
* Ben:  
  * Who controls the dialog?  
* Christian:  
  * Two dialogs, consent selection and continuation API  
  * In most cases with the Fields API, there is one dialog  
* Yi:  
  * Talking with a partner over multi-IdP, they do not share a picture or other identity information, so they want to show this (Fields API consent) dialog.  
  * Not email, but they want some control over the browser UI without requiring continuation API/UI  
* Heather:  
  * Most people have one account. What happens when they have 7 accounts? Will they see this 14 times?  
* Christian:  
  * If you are signed into 7 accounts to the IdP, you choose 1 of those to sign into the RP with. You will then get a dialog for that IdP. If you select another account, you get another dialog.  
* Ben:  
  * What I am thinking about. Functionally the Fields API is UI. The entire point of it is to specify what you must be doing… Are you saying MUST or SHOULD about what is to be handled? Show these words or do not show these words. Do not think the consent dialog should be in the browser UI; it should be on the IdP.  
* Christian:  
  * Do you show any kind of text in your dialog (FedCM lite) that the user is sharing something from the IdP? Or just a list of accounts?  
* Ben:  
  * Not yet finalised. But linking identity, sharing this account, not mentioning specific things.  
* Christian:  
  * For the specific objection, could change to a MAY or SHOULD and allow the user-agent to not show anything. If the user agent does show anything, allow the IdP to display it.  
* Sam:  
  * Another option, some feature detection capability. Some user agent feature detection. WebAuthn does this — tests whether the browser can do things (features).  
  * Are we interested whether this is a good idea? If Firefox disagrees, that is fine; just make sure the spec is interoperable.   
* Ben:  
  * Browser feature detection is OK.  
* Sam:  
  * Similar to passive mode, browsers can make different implementation choices. Those choices can co-exist in an interoperable way.   
* Ben:  
  * If Firefox does not want to support Fields API, but the IdP wants this; this creates issues for the IdP, unless they say, "do not use Firefox".   
* Sam:  
  * Agree. Is that not working as intended? If the …RP and IdP will make choices whether the API serves them or not. Fields API is a feature we are finding useful for RPs and IdPs. IdPs find UX consistency with it. Choice strikes a good balance. If the browser does not support this feature, there are challenges.   
* Yi:  
  * In the spec today, we have RP context, ‘sign-up, continue, etc.’ Allows API callers to customize strings on UI. Ben, you have not yet finalised the text on the UI (FedCM lite).   
* Christian:  
  * Feature detection is orthogonal. Can a feature be detected if members of a dictionary are supported? For this specific feature, the IdP already has a way to tell if Fields was shown to the user, so maybe no need for capability checks for this (for the IdP).  
* Ben:  
  * That is fair.   
* Heather:  
  * This one is not ready for merging. On agenda for the next call.  
  * Anybody else, please comment on the PR.   
* Sam:  
  * For next steps. Guidance from Ben on how to move forward, e.g., feature detection?  
* Ben:  
  * I will think about it more. But there is risk in punting all compatibility concerns to feature detection and washing our hands of it, if the experiences are incompatible across browsers. Feature detection may help with that; will need to think about it more.

### Lightweight FedCM Issue 50: Contextual Integrity

* Heather:  
  * Ben, contextual integrity item: https://github.com/fedidcg/LightweightFedCM/issues/50  
* Ben:  
  * Crossover item.   
  * By showing a user identity in a context where it is not yet shared, in a way that does not make clear that it has not yet been shared, may be deceptive to the user; are they linking an identity permanently across sites? Similar to what was discussed in fenced-frames. They are displayed inside a page; that may be a more general problem. The page you are visiting is displaying information that the page should not know about  
* Christain:  
  * Information being shown ‘below’ the line of death?  
* Ben:  
  * Rather than showing a full account list, show, "here is Google accounts, would you like to link that." If yes, then you can fetch accounts.   
  * Could help FedCM as a spec. If you do this (PS, what?) as a constraint, you remove the need for well-known. If you can send requests for accounts that are already linked, you can now just send requests.  
* Sam:  
  * Ben, you are raising a valid concern.   
* Yi:  
  * In FedCM Lite, if you have two accounts, but only want to link one and not the other. When are 3PC unblocked, first or second click?  
* Ben:  
  * Fine on the first click  
  * What do you do if a user clicks on one account, then cancels on the consent dialog?  
* Yi:  
  * We do not send a token to the IdP. That only happens on the second click.  
  * The IdP chooser for FedCM Light unblocks SAA?  
* Ben:  
  * Add an IdP chooser. If you’ve already been through the flow once, you can skip it the second time.  
* Sam:  
  * Ben, meaningful discussion. Would you agree the FedCM case is different from fenced-frame in that it is not a UI element?  
* Ben:  
  * Agreed.  
* Sam:  
  * Not so much about the ‘line of death’. We are looking to move some of the UI to the omnibox. As a browser vendor, we do not want to confuse the user. If they have not linked an account, we do not want to confuse the user into thinking they have. Do some of the Omnibox builds accomplish this?  
* Ben:  
  * (PS, did not catch)  
* Sam:  
  * Mocks of active mode (user clicks on button) –Not a personalised button (no 3PC)-- where the NASCAR flag is on the page, you click the button and the modal pops up. Does that accomplish the goal?  
* Ben:  
  * It makes it clearer.  
* Sam:  
  * (Your) concern is more about passive mode on page load. This is more about active mode when a user clicks a button?  
* Ben:  
  * The overall design and usability is better, if you can say to the user ‘I want this site and this site to talk to each other’. I think it is more helpful, and frees us from the site level well-known resource.  
* Sam:  
  * Two thoughts:  
    * You might be right that it is worth exploring the UI decision. We might do a better job than what we have today. But we do not know the answer yet. We want to give the browser vendor as many UI options as we can (for now). We need to be able to change the UI going forward (and explore these options).   
    * As for the well-known file: we have been struggling with this; nobody likes it; it is a bad thing; makes it much harder. Optimising for user performance, even if at cost for IdPs. Prioritise less friction for users over IdPs.  
* Ben:  
  * How are you defining hard for users? Click through rate? Maybe that is not the metric to optimize here.   
* Sam:  
  * (PS, did not catch)  
* Ben:  
  * Arguments about accounts UI are interacted with more  
* Sam:  
  * Different than click through rate. We do not want to optimise based on that metric. But we do want to optimise for user satisfaction (that is one metric)  
* Ben:  
  * How many times you click on an account to login….  
* Sam:  
  * We should be able to explore UIs and see what is best for our users. Maybe we do not need to agree, maybe it is good for FedCM to have different choices (usable by different browsers). We construct a system so we can revisit those choices as we go along. There is nothing in the spec that requires click-through rates, etc. We should construct a spec that allows us to improve the UI without breaking IdPs and RPs.  
* Yi:  
  * Ben, you have been talking about click-through rates. E.g.,: if, when they see the UI, they click it, then CTR is 1 (does not seem likely). Conversion rate \== the more you show the UI the more the user is likely to click on the UI.   
  * If we show on page load, and more people click, then more tokens for the RP.  
  * CTR might want a CTR of 1, but that does not mean there is a good user satisfaction.   
  * CTR is used as a signal, but we are focused on user click-through and not just conversion rates.  
* Heather:  
  * What are the next steps?  
  * Ben, are you going to explore this more in FedCM Lite, and maybe diverge from FedCM?  
    * (Ben): Sure  
  * Google team, any objections to such a divergence in FedCM Lite?  
    * (Sam): can you explain more?  
  * If FedCM Lite does away with the well known thing, would that be ok to explore?  
    * (Sam): (PS, did not catch).   
  * How do we measure ?  
* Ben:  
  * This is not the consensus of FedCM Light people (need to speak to others, e.g., Erica).   
* Sam:  
  * Heather and Ben — This is an issue that only appears in passive mode, not active mode. Can we agree that active mode does not have this contextual integrity problem? (It still has the well-known problem.)  
  * Ben, are you comfortable with active mode?  
* Ben:  
  * Difference between well-behaved mode with a button activation, and a not well-behaved (user clicks anything and the UI pops up).   
  * Another concern: Having a clear point of …  
* Heather:  
  * Ben has some things to think about and chat about with other FedCM Light people.   
  * What happens if somebody abuses that?  
  * This conversation will evolve over time, but no code changes yet.  
  * Other open PRs for people to review. Need volunteers for reviewing these (not just Ben, who is involved with all of them).   
    * [https://github.com/w3c-fedid/FedCM/pulls?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Apr+label%3Aagenda%2B](https://github.com/w3c-fedid/FedCM/pulls?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Apr+label%3Aagenda%2B)  
  * Next Tuesday the 26th. Joint CG and WG call.  
    

# Attendees 

* Heather Flanagan (Spherical Cow Consulting)  
* Benjamin VanderSloot (Mozilla)  
* Wendy Seltzer  
* [Ted Thibodeau](https://github.com/TallTed/) (he/him) ([OpenLink Software](https://www.openlinksw.com/))  
* Zachary Tan (Google Chrome)  
* Phil Smart (Shibboleth/Jisc)  
* Simone Onofri (W3C)  
* Christian Biesinger (Google Chrome)
* Yi Gu (Google Chrome)
* Sam Goto (Google Chrome)